hey everyone Travis cafard here at
Blizzcon with covers presented by omen
by HP I'm joined right now by Tim Ismay
who's a senior game producer seem senior
game producer and Starcraft you talk
about some very cool news that's coming
out here at Blizzcon starting off with
free to play so for the first time ever
people are going to be able to dive in
not just to some of the you know like
the starter experience but also even
more of the game do you want to talk to
me a little bit about what you guys are
unlocking for the free-to-play
experience yeah absolutely so the idea
was to try and create as much of the
gameplay as possible just to be
available to people to jump into and
play right away as you mentioned there
was already a fair amount people could
access through a starter account but we
felt just wasn't enough so at every tier
we wanted to make sure that people could
have a robust experience starting with
campaign all of wings of Liberty is free
if you already own wings of Liberty
you're gonna get heart of the swarm for
free if you want to play ranked games
unranked ladder we're gonna make
completely free ranked is also going to
be free but you have to unlock it you
have to play ten games get ten first one
of the days we felt that was a good
barrier to avoid some trolling of people
but also it was kind of a if you're a
new player maybe you should get a few
wins before you jump in a ranked anyways
and in co-op even we're making it so
that all of the commanders you can play
up to level 5 and then our Tannis Rainer
and Kerrigan you can play all the way to
15 just like it is now but the idea is
you can try all the commanders for free
and then of course our arcade will
remain free as it has been okay so help
me figure out what is not free I know
that leaves legacy of the void campaign
and hardest for them if you don't have
wings of Liberty already is there
anything else that is either not free or
gated in any kind of way well there are
still some cosmetic items that have gone
up over time that are still going to be
there that players can choose to
purchase into so there are a lot of
skins that they can buy for units for
multiplayer there's also voice packs
that you can get for your gameplay
there's we're gonna be adding UI skins
is actually one of the rewards for the
next phase of
warchest so the next warchest that's
coming out for example is something that
is not free specifically because we want
to use it as a way to help fund the
eSports program and expand the prize
pools at major eSports tournaments I do
want to ask you more about the war chest
and the eSports initiatives in a second
but maybe just a quick chat about the
free-to-play or you know the decision to
go free-to-play in the philosophy there
I think a lot of people feel or when
they read online oh this game went
free-to-play it's oftentimes in a
situation where like the player just
base just hasn't drug Otton there and
they're hoping that this is like an
alternative thing conversely though I
read recently and I don't know how
official it was that there's been a
pretty static and good player base every
month since Starcraft 2 came out so my
guess is it's not really that so what
really was philosophy and decision and
making the game feel free to play so
both of those things are actually true
so since Starcraft came out we've seen a
extremely devoted fan base we've seen a
very large amount of players that month
to month just keep coming back keep
playing some of them are more engaged
with different modes than others but we
have actually seen very consistent user
engagement that said we wanted aim for
higher goals we felt that in the long
run the health of Starcraft 2 as a
franchise as an eSport was just to have
more eyes on it have more people playing
right the thing that gets you into
wanting to watch some of the pros play
is that you've played the game yourself
so the more people that have played that
game the bigger the audience is going to
be so we just thought about how can we
get more people into this game and the
obvious answer was make it free make it
so people who can just play it do you
guys have any hopes or expectations for
something like this do you look at this
in your like it's gonna be free-to-play
20 times player and you know concurrency
on a day to day basis to be honest we
are really not sure we have no idea we
know that there's going to be a bump we
know that there are a number of regions
or demographics that are probably more
likely to play if it goes free but we
have no idea how big it's gonna get I'll
be honest there are is some there are
some people on the team that are hoping
that yes twenty times as many people
will play Starcraft now speaking of
bumps and again before we move on to the
eSports stuff I'm I just
want to ask you really quickly did the
launch of starcraft remastered have any
impact or any interesting effects on
starcraft 2 or did it seem to sort of
sit in its own you know kind of silo in
terms of effect on starcraft and
interest in conversation I kind of think
well we kind of braced ourselves because
you might have I'm not sure how much you
read the many forums that are out there
there's reddit and there's Team Liquid
and we have our own forms we braced
ourselves because we weren't sure again
you know is our people gonna shift one
way or the other what we found was it
didn't have too big of an impact there
was a obviously a big spike in people
playing Starcraft 1 a lot of people came
back tried it out we saw a lot of
viewership on Starcraft 1 as well
Starcraft 2 not too much of a shift once
again we were surprised to see that just
our fan base is incredibly dedicated and
no matter what happens in the rest of
the world they just keep playing
Starcraft there's a good situation for
you guys to have such a hardcore
dedicated fan base now speaking to the
war chest that you were talking about
earlier so you guys already have had a
war chest launch so you guys are coming
out with a second for those that don't
know what the war chest is maybe even
are watching this interview having not
played Starcraft 2 previously but maybe
interested in the fact that it'll be
completely free-to-play now what can you
tell me can you kind of revise or give a
reacts planation on what war chests are
and kind of what you guys are doing with
number two yeah so there were two kind
of big goals we were hoping to hit with
war chests the first one is that we
wanted to use it as a way to fund
eSports in the long term which it's
already been successful at for this WCS
final so at Blizzcon final right now the
war chests sales allowed us to bump the
price pool from 500,000 to 700,000 which
is the largest prize pool we've ever had
for the WCS finals so in that area it's
already a success for us and we want to
keep hitting that for war chest too
we're actually hoping to expand it to
add stretch goals so they're gonna be
even more things that we end up funding
through the war chest now on the other
side of it for the people that are
buying into it part of it I'm hoping
they're buying in because they love
Starcraft eSports and they want to
support it but they also want to get
something out of it too so the side they
get out of it is we wanted to give a way
to get
skins into the hands of players so unit
skins are something that people were
asking for it for years we finally got
around to implementing a system for it
and supporting it and we started off by
selling just sort of a few of them out
of time people liked it but immediately
they said you know I really like the
skin I'd like to you have the same theme
for my whole army so we saw war chest as
a great way to build full armies of
skins and give them a way to players so
that's kind of what you're buying into
is a chance to if you play the game
regularly unlock all these skins for
your whole army very very cool and so
you'll have war chests number two coming
out is that out when does that hit when
will people be able to get access to it
you know it's coming out in the very
near future I can't give a specific date
but it's right around the corner because
we do want to use it as a method for
funding Katowice so it'll look for it
very soon very very soon okay cool
and then I am a huge co-op fan and I
play with a friend of mine every
Christmas which is it's exciting for me
to hear that there's some new stuff
coming out soon can you revisit that for
those that did not see the opening
ceremony of course so for those who
haven't already heard we have a new
commander that we announced at the show
today Hahn and Horner when we were
looking at Matt Horner originally as a
Skye Terran commander we thought that it
made more sense to pair him with his
better half Mir Han so we built this
sort of hybrid mercenary army slash sky
terran commander and we think he came
out pretty awesome a lot of the
abilities are crazy over the top we
added some new units like the assault
galleon the strike fighter
we added a ability to teleport a space
station into your enemy and explode it a
calling the fleet ability if you've
played heroes of the storm you've seen
rayner's you know Hyperion flying over
the map shooting down we thought what if
it was an entire fleet shooting from
orbit so you get that ability so there's
a lot of crazy stuff you can do we've
seen the reaction to coop be very strong
I'm glad that you're playing it I also
love it I got all my commanders maxed
out I'm waiting for this one because of
the huge feedback we see from the
community of how much they're loving it
and how much we see players engaging
with it we're planning to keep coming
out with commanders for well maybe
forever we'll see
maybe forever that would be great for me
every Christmas I could just keep
playing I mean are you what are there
any interesting lessons you can share
with me because I do find that it feels
like in the beginning a lot of the
commanders were kind of fun but now you
guys are maybe taking more chances with
them I see zanier setups and more unique
ways of you know you've got commanders
that are sacrificing their units and
their armies is there to bolster them
I'll you know what what does the process
been like in sort of iterating on these
commanders and coming up with different
ones so frequently now your observations
are very accurate we start out with
things that we felt were powerful but
shall we say kind of safe right so you
got Raynor acting as a kind of a bio
commander and we thought oh but maybe
you can also build some battle cruisers
and tanks throw a little bit of spice in
there but you know Hyperion call down
that's cool and as we've gone further
and further with it we've really felt
that capturing the fantasy is important
with every commander that we have if you
also want their gameplay to always feel
unique the further you go more you have
to push the boundaries and we've kind of
just decided there's no limit if you
need to push them more you push it more
so Haunted Horner I think is a great
example of that where we decided you
know you're gonna have this flying star
port that can build on the move and it
can fire and it has drones so it can
attack so it's kind of just everything
in this one unit also you've got these
little bombers that can just drop napalm
anywhere on the map and you got a raven
that has a radar that can actually see
everything under the fog of war so you
can see where your bombers have to get
and it's it's crazy right it's stuff
that we never would have let happen
originally but at this point if you come
up with a cool idea and it's fun to play
we do it we just do it
the pace that you have been releasing
commanders at should we expect that to
remain the same over time or is there a
plan to maybe increase this for next
year what can fans of the commander
system hope for so we've tried to set a
consistently higher bar in how much
polish we're putting into each of these
commanders so we are actually trying to
do more art more original stuff on each
one of them I can't commit to an exact
timeline but I would say that we are
trying to get them out as fast as we can
that said because of the higher bar I'm
not
sure exactly how many we'll get out next
year but we will try to get out as many
as we can I would appreciate that that
would be very very much appreciated is
there anything for any of the people
that are watching this interview that
maybe even haven't had a chance to try
Starcraft 2 before and our interests and
the fact that it's free-to-play or even
any as a loyal Starcraft fans anybody
anything out there that you would like
to add or anything that you'd like to
say to anyone sure one thing I'd like to
say cuz I think it'll probably come up
is there will probably be some players
out there that are thinking you know
I've been in Starcraft 2 player forever
ever do I get anything cool with this
great transition
honestly the focus of the transition to
free-to-play is much more about bringing
new people into the community getting
more people you can play with but we did
actually want to add a little something
for our guys I've been playing a while
as I mentioned before if you own wings
of Liberty but you don't have heart of
the swarm yet we'll be giving it to you
for free on top of that we're gonna have
a founders pack so that if you own
Starcraft in any capacity you're gonna
get a free skin for your ghost that's
unique it's the only way that you can
get is by already having Starcraft when
this happens and a few free portraits as
well that again will be unique to just
those who help support Starcraft before
it was free-to-play very very cool well
thank you so much for the interview
great to hear about what's next for
Starcraft 2 for everyone else you can
check out the rest of our coverage of
all things bliss con right here on my
youtube channel thanks so much to omen
for supporting our content this weekend
they are now in an official overwatch
League partner be sure to follow them
over at omen by HP on Twitter for more
updates